I am pleased to announce an exciting new initiative at Rensselaer:
Beginning this year, we will cultivate our vision of The New
Polytechnic, and of Rensselaer as a great collaborative endeavor, in
part by selecting a theme for the entire Rensselaer community to
consider together over the course of the academic year.

Our inaugural theme is "resilience." During the President's
Commencement Colloquy last May, I invited our four honorands to
deliberate on "Resilient Leadership for a Resilient World," because
the complexity of the challenges the world faces requires not only new
models of collaboration, but new models of resilience as well:
personal resilience, resilience in our infrastructure and
institutions, and in our civic life---all of which rest on resilient
leadership.

As we enter the Fall 2015 semester, we carry forward this theme with
the launch of a series of programs, events, and courses that will help
us to identify the ways in which all of us can build such resilience
into our lives, into the physical world that surrounds us, and into
our social structures.

Rensselaer faculty and staff will embed resilience into curricular and
co-curricular activities for all students. Faculty in each of the
schools will be exploring the topic, its application within their
disciplines, and its relevance across interdisciplinary
boundaries. Student Life programs will help our students to
investigate the meaning of resilience as individuals, as members of a
team, and as leaders.

Workshops, lectures, concerts, projects, and team-building exercises
will offer the entire Rensselaer community food for thought about ways
to enhance our ability to thrive amidst upheaval and great challenges.

To begin, we have chosen the book Authentic Happiness by Martin
E.P. Seligman, Ph.D., as a common read for the academic year, and have
provided a copy to each student. This book is accompanied by a website
hosted by the University of Pennsylvania:
https://www.authentichappiness.sas.upenn.edu/.

We will soon announce more exciting events that will encourage
stimulating community conversations around our shared theme of
resilience. We hope that you will join, and enjoy, this fresh and
inspiring exchange.





I am pleased to share with you some information about an exciting new
plan of study at Rensselaer: the Summer Arch.

The Summer Arch explicitly encourages experiential learning and
professional development for all students through an academic plan of
study that focuses on three specific outcomes: enhanced
student-faculty interactions at a pivotal phase of the undergraduate
experience; pathways for students who wish to augment their academic
programs through the availability of a year-round academic calendar;
and flexibility in the academic schedule to enable all students to
explore their passions and interests in a way that positions them for
future success.

Summer Arch will be accompanied by new curricular and co-curricular
offerings at Rensselaer that cultivate the development of a global,
multicultural, and self- aware leader; a critical and creative
thinker; an exceptional communicator; and an inventive and
enterprising problem solver who is prepared to address the challenges
and opportunities faced by society.

Under the Summer Arch, rising juniors will attend a full summer
semester at Rensselaer between their sophomore and junior years,
followed by either a fall or a spring "away" semester. The "away"
semester allows students to take advantage of the numerous
co-curricular and experiential activities available off campus,
including international experiences, internships, co-ops, research
opportunities, and engagement in community service projects.

The Summer Arch is an important part of the transformational
experience we provide our students as we prepare the next generation
of leaders, and builds upon Clustered Learning, Advocacy, and Support
for Students, or CLASS -- Rensselaer's signature approach to the
student experience.

In 2017, Rensselaer will launch the first of two pilots of the Summer
Arch, and rising juniors (members of the Class of 2019) from the
School of Engineering and selected programs from the other Schools
will have the opportunity to stay on campus and participate in the
Summer Arch. In the summer of 2018, Rensselaer will launch the second
pilot, and rising juniors (members of the Class of 2020) enrolled in
all schools will have the opportunity to participate in the Arch. The
program will be a requirement for all members of the Class of 2021.

As we approach Rensselaer's third century of innovation and discovery,
we remain committed to educating the leaders of tomorrow. A Rensselaer
education, through our innovative pedagogy, global challenge-linked
research, and a transformative student experience, positions our
graduates truly to change the world. The Summer Arch reinforces and
strengthens that commitment.

As with any new initiative of such magnitude, there are still many
details to be finalized. The Office of the Provost, the Division of
Student Life, and other portfolios will be sharing additional
information as it becomes available. For now, please visit the Summer
Arch web page, (rpi.edu/summerarch) for more information.
